Add updated publish documentation section (#121)
bump-sh/docs: src/_help/publish-documentation/branching.md

---
title: Branching
---

- TOC
{:toc}

> ## What is branching?

Author: 👍

> What we refer to as "Branching" is a solution that allows you to have multiple different versions of the same API documentation on parallel branches, somewhat similar to Git.

Author: 👍

> Branches can, for example, be used to distinguish between two versions of your API documentation, such as those for production or development environments. Another example is keeping track of previous versions of an API, preserving the history for users who are not using the latest version (e.g., 1.0, 1.1, 2.0, etc.).

Author: :+1:

> You can create as many branches as necessary, and each of these branches can receive its own deploys and has a distinct changelog from others. You can also choose which branch will be the default one displayed.

Author: Modified the "default" part. Not the structure from the first comment.

Switching from one version to another on documentation can be done in an instant through a dropdown menu.

## Create a new branch

> From the settings of a documentation, the Branches section allows you to create new branches. Simply enter the name of the new branch and confirm.

Author: 👍

![](/images/help/create-branch.png)

> Once you have created your branch, you can start uploading and [deploying your first versions](/help/publish-documentation/deploy-and-release-management/) using your dashboard, the CLI, or the CI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have created your branch, you can start [deploying your first API document](/help/publish-documentation/deploy-and-release-management/) using your dashboard, the CLI, or your CI.
```

> Once you have created your branch, you can start uploading and [deploying your first versions](/help/publish-documentation/deploy-and-release-management/) using your dashboard, the CLI, or the CI.

Author: 👍

> ## Deploy into a branch

Author: 👍

> Deploying a version in a branch follows the usual procedure, with an additional step where you specify which branch to add this new version to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying an API document in a branch follows the usual procedure, with an additional step where you specify which branch to add this new deploy to.
```

> From the settings of a documentation, in the "Upload" section, simply select the branch in which to deploy the version before confirming the upload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the documentation settings, in the "Upload" section, select the branch in which to deploy before confirming the upload.
```

> From the settings of a documentation, in the "Upload" section, simply select the branch in which to deploy the version before confirming the upload.

Author: 👍

![](/images/help/upload-branch.png)

### Using the CLI

When deploying via the CLI, it is possible to specify the target branch using the `--branch <branch-name>` parameter. If the branch does not exist, it will be created at this stage.

```
bump deploy path/to/file.json --doc my-documentation --branch staging
```

> You will need to pass your private documentation access token for this command to work. Either with the `--token` flag or via the `BUMP_TOKEN` environment variable. This token can be found in your documentation settings under the "CI deployment" page.

{: .info}

### Using the API

> Our [API](https://developers.bump.sh/group/endpoint-branches) also allows you to manage the branches of your documentation. You can create a new branch, delete one, list them all, select one as the default branch, and deploy a new version into a branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our [API](https://developers.bump.sh/group/endpoint-branches) also allows you to manage the branches of your documentation. You can create a new branch, delete one, list them all, select one as the default branch, and deploy an API document into a branch.
```

> Please note that, currently, the API does not support renaming a branch.

Author: I haven't moved that part in the next commit, after the suggestions both from Thimy and Paulr (who shared that when it's a small piece of info, we should keep it). Please let me know what shall we stand for here.

---
title: Branching
---

- TOC
{:toc}

## What are branches?

What we refer to as "Branching" is a solution that allows you to have multiple different definitions of the same API documentation on parallel branches.

Branches can, for example, be used to distinguish between two environments of your API documentation, such as those for production or development environments. Another example is keeping track of previous versions of an API (e.g., 1.0, 1.1, 2.0, etc.).

You can create as many branches as necessary, and each of these branches can receive its own deploys and has a distinct changelog from others. You can choose which branch will be displayed and used by default for deployments (when no target branch is designated).

> Switching from one API definition to another on documentation can be done in an instant through a dropdown menu.

Author: Added part of your suggestion (but not the "public page" which has not been used anywhere else so far, could change later)

![](/images/help/version-selector.png)

## Create a new branch

> From the settings of a documentation, the Branches section allows you to create new branches. Enter the name of the new branch and confirm. You can also create branches directly with our CLI or our API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From the documentation settings, the Branches section allows you to create new branches. Enter the name of the new branch and confirm. You can also create branches directly with our CLI or our API.
```
